Ballad Of Casey Jones
Traditional

G               G7  C                 G
One sunday morning alone in a driving rain,
(One sunday morning look shower and rain,)
                        A         D
Around the curve came a passenger train,
             G7    C     G
In the cabin stood Casey Jones,
G
Bold engineer but he's dead and gone.
(Mobile engineer but he's dead and gone.)

Casey Jones was an old engineer,
Call for the family tonight, tonight you will fear,
All I need is my water and my coal,
Look out the windows, see my drag wheel roll.

Mrs. Casey when she heard the news,
Sitting on the bed she was lacing up her shoes.
Children, children, now catch your breath,
You will draw a pension if your Papa's dead.
(You will draw a pension at your Papa's death.)

Children, children, now get your hat,
Tell me Mama, what do you mean by that?
Get your hat, put it on your head,
Go down in town, see your Daddy is dead.

Casey said just before he died,
"Fix the blinds so that the bums can't ride,
"If they ride, let them ride the rods,
"Put their trust in the hands of God."

Casey said just before he died,
"Two more roads that I want to ride."
People said, "What roads, Casey, can they be?"
"Gold Colorado and the Santa Fe."

Casey Jones

Come all you rounders that want to hear
The story of a brave engineer.
Casey Jones was the rounder's name,
On a six eight wheeler, boys, he won his fame.

     Casey Jones mounted to his cabin,
     Casey Jones with his orders in his hand
     Casey Jones mounted to his cabin,
     And he took his farewell trip to that promised land.

The caller call Casey at half past four,
He kissed his wife at the station door,
He mounted to the cabin with the orders in his hand,
And he took his farewell trip to that promised land.

When he pulled up that Reno hill,
He whistled for the crossing with an awful shrill;
The switchman knew by the engine's moan
That the man at the throttle was Casey Jones.

He looked at his water and his water was low;
He looked at his watch and his watch was slow;
He turned to his fireman and this is what he said,
"Boy, we're going to reach Frisco, but we'll all be dead."

"So turn on your water and shovel in your coal,
Stick you head out the window, watch those drivers roll;
I'll drive her till she leaves the rail,
For I'm eight hours late by that Western Mail.

When he was within six miles of the place,
There number four stared him straight in the face.
He turned to his fireman, said "Jim you'd better jump,
For there're two locomotives that are going to bump.

Casey said just before he died,
"There're two more roads I would like to ride."
The fireman said, "Which ones can they be?"
"Oh the Northern Pacific and the Santa Fe."

Mrs. Jones sat at her bed a-sighing
Just to hear the news that her Casey was dying.
"Hush up children, and quit your crying',
For you've got another poppa on the Salt Lake Line."

Many songs have been sung about Casey Jones and the famous train wreck of 1909.  At the time of the tragedy, according to one legend, Casey, throttle puller of the Illinois Central's crack
Cannonball, was driving No. 638, making a run for a friend who was ill.  The train was wrecked at Vaughn, Mississippi, and Casey died at the throttle.  Wallace Saunders, his Negro engine wiper, set down the story of his death and it was sung to the then popular tune of "Jimmy Jones."

Casey Jones - Union Scab
Joe Hill

The Workers on the S. P. line to strike sent out a call;
But Casey Jones, the engineer, he wouldn't strike at all;
His boiler it was leaking, and its drivers on the bum,
And his engine and its bearings, they were all out of plumb.

  Casey Jones kept his junk pile running;
  Casey Jones was working double time;
  Casey Jones got a wooden medal,
  For being good and faithful on the S.P. line.

The workers said to Casey: "Won't you help us win this strike ? " *
But Casey said: "Let me alone, you'd better take a hike."
Then Casey's wheezy engine ran right off the worn-out track,
And Casey hit the river with an awful crack.

  Casey Jones hit the river bottom;
  Casey Jones broke his blooming spine;
  Casey Jones was an Angeleno,
  He took a trip to heaven on the S. P. line.

When Casey Jones got up to heaven to the Pearly Gate,
He said: "I'm Casey Jones, the guy that pulled the S. P. freight."
"You're just the man," said Peter, "our musicians went on strike;
You can get a job a-scabbing any time you like."

  Casey Jones got a job in heaven;
  Casey Jones was doing mighty fine;
  Casey Jones went scabbing on the angels,
  Just like he did to workers on the S. P. line.

They got together and they said it wasn't fair
For Casey Jones to go around a-scabbing everywhere.
The Angel Union No. 23 they sure were there,
And they promptly fired Casey down the Golden Stair.

  Casey Jones went to Hell a-flying;
  Casey Jones, the Devil said, "Oh fine;
  Casey Jones, get busy shoveling sulfur
  That's what you get for scabbing on the S.P. Line."

* or:
Casey said, "Let me alone, you'd better take a hike!"
Then someone put a bunch of railroad ties across the track,
And Casey hit the river with an awful smack.
