Clementine
Traditional
In a cavern, in a canyon,
Excavating for a mine,
Dwelt a miner, forty-niner
And his daughter Clementine.

Chorus:
Oh my darling, oh my darling
Oh my darling, Clementine
Thou art lost and gone forever,
Dreadful sorry, Clementine.

Light she was and like a fairy,
And her shoes were number nine,
Herring boxes without topses
Sandals were for Clementine

Chorus

Drove she ducklings to the water
Every morning just at nine,
Hit her foot against a splinter
Fell into the foaming brine.

Chorus

Ruby lips above the water,
Blowing bubbles soft and fine,
But alas, I was no swimmer,
So I lost my Clementine.

Chorus

Then the miner, forty-niner
Soon began to peak and pine,
Thought he oughter jine he daughter,
Now he's with his Clementine.

Chorus

In my dreams she still doth haunt me,
Robed in garments soaked in brine;
Though in life I used to hug her,
Now she's dead, I draw the line.

A remarkable ballad developed in San Francisco toward the end of
the nineteeth century. It became a favorite college song during
the Reconstruction period.

Additional verses:

In a churchyard, 'neath a gravestone
Where the myrtle doth entwine.
There are posies, and some roses
Fertilized by Clementine.

How I missed her, how I missed her
How I missed my Clementine!
Till I kissed her little sister
And forgot my Clementine.

All you Boy Scouts, take fair warning
From this dreadful tale of mine.
Artificial respiration
Would have saved my Clementine.


from: The Digital Tradition Folk Song Database. 

Clementine
Traditional
Tom Lehrer

Spoken:
  If you'd like to consider the folksong and expound briefly on a theory I have held for some time to the effect that the reason most folksongs are so atrocious, is that they were written by the people. If professional songwriters had written them instead, things might have turned out considerably differently. For example consider the old favourite to which, I'm sure, you are all familiar, Clementine

In a cavern, in a canyon excavating for a mine
Dwelled a miner, 49er,and his daughter, Clementine.
Light she was and like a fairy, and her shoes were number nine,
Herring boxes without topses, sandals were for Clementine.
Drove she ducklings to the water ev'ry morning just at 9,
Struck her foot against a splinter, fell into the foaming brine.

Spoken:
You know it - In a cavern, in a canyon, that lalalalalala ... a song with no recognizable merit whatsoever ... and imagine what might have happened, if for example, Cole Porter had tried writing this song.  The first verse might have come out like this:

In a cavern, in a canyon, excavating for a mine,
Far away from the boom-boom-boom of the city
She was so pretty ... what a pity, Clementine.
Oh Clementine, can't you tell from the howls of me
This love of mine calls to you from the bowels of me.
Are you discerning the returning of this churning burning --
Yearning for you...

Spoken:
Well, supposing at this point that Mozart or one of that crowd had tried writing a verse the next one might have come out as a baritone aria from an Italian opera somewhat along these lines:

Era legera e come un fairy e suo shoes numero nine,
Herring bo-ho-ho-hoxes senza to-ho-ho-hopses,
Sandalae per Clementina si, per Clementina si,
Per Clementina sandalae, per Clementina sandalae, per Clementina.
Clementina, Clementina, Clementina\dots
Herring boxes senza topses sandalae per Clementina,
Herring boxes senza topses sandalae per Clementina,
[ ?? ] Clementina, [ ?? ] Clementina, [ ? ] Clementina, [ ? ]
Clementina-na-na-na\dots

Spoken:
Supposing at this rather dramatic juncture in the narrative one of our modern cool-school of composers had tried might have come out like this:

A one, a two, a three...drove those ducklings to the water...
Ev'ry morning like 9am... got hung upon a splinter,
Got hung upon a splinter... fell into the foamy brine,
Dig that crazy Clementine.

Spoken:
To end on a happy note one can always count on Gilbert and Sullivan for a rousing finale full of words and music and signifying nothing.

That I missed her depressed her young sister named Esther,
This mister to pester she tried.
Now a pestering sister's a festering blister,
You're best to resist her, say I.
The mister resist her the sister persisted,
I kissed her all loyalty slipped.
When she said I could have her,
Her sister's cadaver must surely have turned in its crypt.

Yes, yes, yes, yes, but I love she and she loves me.
Enraptured are the both of we,
Yes I love she and she loves I and will through all eternity
... see what I mean?

Copyright Tom Lehrer

from: The Digital Tradition Folk Song Database. 

Clementine
Traditional
In a cavern, in a canyon
In the shadow of a hill
It was there I kept a cathouse
With my oldest brother Bill.

Oh at first we didn't prosper
Then we started doing fine
When a gal came down from Jasper
by the name of Clementine

She was plain, she was scrawny,
And she had no gift of gab,
But she had the kind of quim, boys,
That would reach right out and grab.

Chorus:
Oh my darling, oh my darling
Oh my darling, Clementine
You are lost and gone forever,
Dreadful sorry, Clementine.

So our days were full of laughter
And our nights were filled with song,
Our safe was stuffed with money
Clementine was stuffed with dong.

Then this dude came down from Jasper
And at last she'd met her match,
Cause he had a rifled member
But she had a smooth bore snatch.

Chorus

Brother Bill was first to notice
So he shouted to her "turn!"
But before this word was spoken
She was split from stem to stern.

Every day down by the grave yard
When they toll the mission bell
We lay of wreath of roses
Round the quim we loved so well.

Chorus

note: as sung by The Highgraders, San Francisco, early 60s - ES

Clementine
Traditional
There she stood beside the bar rail
Drinking pink gins for two bits,
And the swollen whiskey barrels
Stood in awe beside her tits.

Chorus:
I owe my darlin', I owe my darlin'
I owe my darlin' Clementine.
Three bent pennies and a nickel
Oh my darlin' Clementine.

Eyes of whiskey, lips of water
As she vomits in my beer
Dawns the daylight in her temple
With a fucking warming leer.

Hung me guitar on the bar rail
At the sweetness of the sign,
In one leap leapt out me trousers
Plunged into the foaming brine.

She was bawdy, she was busty,
She could match the great Bosoom,
As she strained out of her bloomers
Like a melon tree in bloom,

Oh the Oak tree and the Cypress
Never more together twine,
Since that creeping poison ivy
Laid its blight on Clementine.
from: The Digital Tradition Folk Song Database. 
