Cruel White Water
Robert Hunter
Lyrics Only

Up near the border where the cruel white water
drowns the vagabond who sleeps too low
me and my companion, the famous Jack Of Lanterns
tracked the misty mountains through the snow

I ran across the hidden chord but I could not learn the changes
the blue Pacific called and I had to go
there was holy on the ivy in the apparition mountains
but the warmest bed I found was ten below

courted lady Greensleeves, she pushed me out the window
I landed like a feather in the trees
took off across New Mexico and landed in the bayou
but the catfish were too lean, and I had to blow

don't lie for gold--no no no no!
don't lie for love--that turns out cold
if life depends, just get out whole...
but don't lie for less, no no no no!

Chorus
Marie Marie, Marie Helena
you're my amour, you're my own heart
Marie Marie, Marie Helena
Marie Marie, Marie Helena!

Left a life of ease and caught that black iron steamer
across the barren waste to your arcade
singing 'take me to your leader' in my strangest country tenor
but the bad I set to lay was half way made

leftover pieces weren't exactly what I needed
they didn't have much meaning on their own
there was some talk of deviation, but from what was never mentioned
so I set out to find my wrong way home

home inside the hour, I was tuning my guitar
where I got that sudden urge I know too well
I finished my rendition of 'Don't Pity My Condition'
and then looked around to find what I could sell

You can't sell your soul! Leave that alone!
You can't change your role Big Daddy Lowe
Don't break your back for less than love!
and don't trade your love for stars above!

Chorus

Caught up with Jack Of Lanterns in a town called Make It Hurt
preaching three card monte in the Live And Let It church
the choir was down and dirty, drawing bad and betting worse
we left at ten past six in a padded hearse

I might find companions in after hours taverns
to tell a tale or two I've never heard
but the strangest song I know
is what the thunder said to lightening
and I never could recall a single word
except...

Up near the border where the cruel white water
drowns the vagabond who sleeps too low
me and my companion, the famous Jack Of Lanterns
tracked the misty mountains through the snow

don't lie for gold--no no no no!
don't lie for love--that turns out cold
if life depends, just get out whole...
but don't lie for less--no no no no!

Marie Marie, Marie Helena
by firelight you steal my heart
Marie Marie, Marie Helena
Marie Marie, Marie Helena!
