Ballad Of A Thin Man
Bob Dylan

     Bm               Bm/Bb
You walk into the room with your pencil in your hand
Bm/A                    Bm/G#
You see somebody naked and you say "who is that man?"
G                 Em
You try so hard but you just don't understand
D                 F#                Bm
Just what you will say when you get home
 D                      A    
Because something is happening here
         Bm                  G                 Bm
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

You raise up your head and you ask "is this where it is?"
And somebody points to you and says "its his"
And you say "what's mine?" and somebody else says "well WHAT is"
And you say "oh my god - am i here all alone?"
But something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

You hand in you ticket and you go watch the geek
Who immediately walks up to you when he hears you speak
Saying "how does it feel to be such a freak?"
And you say "impossible" as he hands you a bone
And something is happening here
But you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

 Bm                      Bm/A
You have many contacts among the lumberjacks
  G                                             Bm
To get you facts when someone attacks your imagination
 Bm                          Bm/A
But nobody has any respect, anyway they already expect you
 G                      Em                          A     A7
To all give a check to tax-deductable charity organizations

You've been with the professors, and they all liked your looks
With great lawyers you have discussed lepers and crooks
You've read all of F. Scott Fitzgerald's books
You're very well read, its well known
But something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

Well, the swordswallower comes up to you and then he kneels
He crosses himself and he clicks his high heels
And without further notice he asks you how it feels
And he says "here is your throat back, thanks for the loan"
And you know something is happening
But you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

Now you see this one-eyed midget saying the word "now"
And you say "for what reason?" and he says "how?"
And you say "what does this mean?" and he screams back "you're a cow!
Give me some milk - or else go home!"
And you KNOW somethings happening here
But you dont know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

Well, you walk into the room like a camel and then you frown
You put your eyes in your pocket and your nose on the ground
There oughtta be a law against you coming around
You should be made to wear earphones
Cause something is happening here
And you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones

(from Highway 61 Revisited, 1965)
(sent by Harlan at harlant@hawaii.edu)
